well I'm joined Now by mads Gilbert he's
a medical doctor and activist and he's
also worked in the alifa hospital he
joins me now from Cairo doctor thank you
for joining us again on Al jazer I
understand you are currently in touch
with colleagues can you tell us what the
situation at alifa is like now we knew
the blackout was coming but not
necessarily the strikes or the
snipers well I think there are two
aspects now important to understand
number one they are surrounded by
Israeli uh Armed Forces who are shooting
at the hospital we learned this morning
snipers were shooting through the
windows and into the staff uh we also
learned that one nurse was killed in the
neonatal ICU now they have I just got a
receiv received a message from Dr Marana
abusada who is one of the senior surgant
and he says 38 neonates moved now to
cardiac surgery unit in main operating
theater in open space not more in
incubators because oxygen generator was
damaged by fire uh strikes yesterday no
electricity about 600
inpatients
28 ICU adults two of them in ventilators
they are in the emergency room and u i i
got this picture of the uh babies who
should have been in the incubator there
are no lying on the floor in the CTIC
unit and they are covered with some
blankets in order to avoid
hypothermia these babies should have
been they they should have been in the
Inc incubators of course and they risk
death three of the neonates are dead and
there are 39 now lying on the floor with
blankets around who are at high risk of
death so this is uh not an it's not a
difficult situation it's a a horrible
situation and um of course of course
this points to this
humanitarian total failure and I'd like
to underline one point more now we talk
about the fire and the attacks on the
hospitals and we need to discuss that
and stop that but we have to understand
that most of the the most serious
problem now is 1.5 million internally
displaced without water and food people
are desperate and you know you can't
live long without water there even
taking water up from the streets and
they're drinking sea water with sugar in
so this is a massive failure of the
international humanitarian Society who
should have been there with water it's
getting cold during usas now they sleep
under open air they don't have blankets
for the children 1.5 million civilian
Palestinians out in the open with no
water and no food and the attacks on the
hospital now the struggle or the
fighting goes on in the north they there
is no possibility they tell me to access
the wounded or the dead so we will not
have updated numbers on the kill and I
get a flashback to the sa and shatila
Massacre which was done in complete
darkness for three days and I wonder
where are the journalist I haven't heard
from the Al Al jazer journalist in the
north for many days and I'm very fearful
that the there is an ongoing Massacre
which will not be covered and we will
not be able to see it but in alifa
desperate situation no oxygen no food no
water and of course absolutely no
security for patients and staff doctor
when you and I last spoke Ju Just a day
or so ago you were telling me that when
you've been there when when you worked
there for 16 years you saw no Hamas
military operations anywhere near the
hospital facility what do you make of
Israel's claims now its operations
around the facility
now I have to be honest with you I'm
sick and tired of these claims that
there is H an
Hamas Command Center we as I've said
aund times we have never seen it we have
never seen any high ranking Hamas people
in shifa we've been able to roam freely
all around I've never seen anything nor
have my International colleagues um and
um I don't think um the Israeli Army has
any moral standard because the Playbook
of war the Geneva Convention and the hog
convention clearly states that hospitals
are protected objects even if there
should be some military personnel so
these are the claims and they don't even
need these claims because they have
bombed rantisi theyve bombed Nas
Hospital they've bom the the uh a
hospital without any claims of any
Command Center so they seem to be
attacking Healthcare as a part of their
strategy and we know that from 16 years
they've always been attacking Healthcare
doctor what do you understand about the
restrictions on on movement around alifa
at the moment our correspondent earlier
was saying that doctors can't even move
from Department to Department why
restrict people from moving within the
facility why shoot through
windows I think you should ask that
question to the Israeli military uh
officers and the chief of staff and Mr
netan and most of all you should ask
President Joe Biden why are your troops
on the ground supported by the United
States shooting and killing health
personnel in the hospital when they try
to save lives I'm not the one who should
answer that question it's actually the
Israelis because they are the
perpetrators and also I think it's it's
prudent to ask why are you not allowing
water and food in is this a genocide in
slow motion the answer is yes and I
think the responsibility the complicity
rests on the shoulders of the American
politicians and the president and on the
European politicians and their
leadership who are Whispering some small
protest this has been going on for four
weeks now people are dying hour by hour
people are starving people are thirsting
in 2023 when is this going to
stop Dr Matt gilber a medical doctor and
activist who's also worked in alifa
hospital uh doctor just to flag one of
the things that you said there
he was describing the children the
premature babies whove been in
incubators no longer on incubators on
the floor of a surgical Ward wrapped in
blankets doctor thank you so much for
for sharing that with us here on Al
jazer thank you much I will send you the
picture so you can have it live on your
next uh newscast thank you